Irrational slope topology (cut point, local metrizability, and more) (#1182)
pi-base/data: spaces/S000067/properties/P000138.md

---
space: S000067
property: P000138
value: false
refs:
- zb: "1453.54006"
  name: The connected countable spaces of Bing and Ritter are topologically homogeneous (Banakh et al.)
---

> $A\subset X$ is called *$\theta$-discrete* if every point of $X$ has a closed neighbourhood containing only one point of $A$. Symbol "$\theta$" in the name does not formally refer to to the irrational constant.
> 
> By Theorem 1 in {{zb:1453.54006}}, every bijection between $\theta$-discrete subsets of $X$ extends to a homeomorphism of $X$.
> 
> It can be readily verified that $Z=\mathbb Z\times\{0\}$ is $\theta$-discrete (every discrete closed subset contained in $\mathbb Q\times\{0\}$ is) and admits continuum bijections to itself (e.g. every subset of $Z$ can be the set of fixed points),
> hence there exist uncountably many self-homeomorphisms of $X$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the terminology used in {{zb:1453.54006}}, a set
$A\subset X$ is called *$\theta$-discrete* if every point of $X$ has a closed neighbourhood containing only one point of $A$. (The symbol "$\theta$" here has nothing to do with the irrational constant used to define {S67}.)

By Theorem 1 in that paper, every bijection between $\theta$-discrete subsets of $X$ extends to a homeomorphism from $X$ to itself.

The set $\mathbb Z\times\{0\}$ is $\theta$-discrete (every discrete closed subset contained in $\mathbb Q\times\{0\}$ is) and admits continuum many bijections to itself (e.g. every subset of $Z$ with at least two elements in its complement can be the set of fixed points).
Hence there exist uncountably many self-homeomorphisms of $X$.
```
